<div align = "center">

# 🚀 Go FrontEnd Compiler 

</div>

### 📝 Overview

Welcome to the repository for our Go Language Compiler FrontEnd project. In this project, we've taken on the task of generating a compiler FrontEnd for a subset of the Go programming language.

This project involves the creation of a type checker and a grammar for a subset of Go demonstrating fundamental principles of compiler design and construction. The compiler ensures the program's conformance to defined language rules.

---

### 🎯 About Go

Introduced by Google in 2007, Go (or Golang) is an open-source programming language famous for its simplicity, organizational structure, and quick compilation. These attributes make it a highly attractive choice for programmers and an ideal candidate for large-scale projects.

---

### 💡 Motivation

Our decision to create a compiler for a Go language subset stemmed from two primary motivations:

1. **Exposure to Go Language:** We wanted to familiarize ourselves with the syntax and semantics of this increasingly popular language. Developing a compiler for a Go language subset provided us an in-depth understanding and practical experience with its constructs.
2. **Compiler Development Practice:** The project served as an excellent platform to apply and refine our knowledge of compiler development. Working with different languages enhances our versatility in compiler creation and improves our understanding of varying language paradigms.

---

### 🚀 Getting Started

- GitLab Account
- Git installed on your local machine
- Basic understanding of Compiler Design

---

### 🛠️ Installation

- **Clone the Repository**

To clone the project repository, use the following command in your terminal: 
```bash
git clone https://collaborating.tuhh.de/e16/courses/compiler-construction/ss23/groups/group06.git
```
##### 
- **Generate the Compiler**

After cloning the project, you can generate the compiler as an executable file by running the make all command:
```bash
make all
```
##### 
- **Refresh BNFC-Generated Files**

If you need to refresh the files generated by the BNFC, use the following command:
```bash
bnfc -m --cpp GoLang.cf
```
##### 
- **Test the Compiler**

In order to thoroughly test the compiler, we have prepared a variety of test cases. To execute these tests, you can run the following command in your terminal:
```bash
Make test
```
For a deeper understanding of the functionality provided by this command, we recommend reviewing our[ Makefile](https://collaborating.tuhh.de/e16/courses/compiler-construction/ss23/groups/group06/-/blob/main/P4/Makefile). It will provide you with insights into its underlying operations.

---

### ⚙️ Supported Syntax and Semantics

Our compiler supports a subset of Go's syntax and semantics, allowing users to make use of a range of essential programming constructs. It includes but is not limited to:

- Function definitions and declarations, with or without type specifications.
- Structure definitions.
- Method definitions and declarations.
- Import and package definitions.
- Constant and variable declarations.
- Short variable declarations.
- Expressions including, but not limited to, boolean values, integer and double literals, unary and binary arithmetic expressions, logical expressions, and assignment expressions.

### Examples of Legal Syntax

Our compiler supports many common Go syntax constructs. The legal syntax of our compiler includes a variety of programming constructs such as function definitions, method definitions, package and import definitions, variable declarations, and many types of expressions.

We've provided a number of Go code examples that our compiler can successfully compile in our repository. These examples showcase the range of syntactic constructs our compiler supports and provide insight into how they are used within the context of the Go language.

To explore the examples of legal syntax, go to `Tests/Legal`

### Examples of Illegal Syntax

Despite broad support for Go syntax, there are certain code constructs that are rejected by our compiler. These usually involve violations of the language rules, such as declaring a variable twice within the same scope or calling a function with incorrect arguments.

We've collected several Go code examples that demonstrate such illegal syntax in our repository. These examples highlight the syntax checks implemented in our compiler and the type of mistakes it can help catch to prevent runtime errors.

To explore the examples of illegal syntax, go to `Tests/IllegalSyntax` or `Tests/IllegalSemantic`.

# Authors
This project is a joint effort of Wassim Alkhalil, Zana Gello, and Ssuyung Yeh.
